Documentation Update: Add linux ssh guide (#1527)
LizardByte/Sunshine: docs/source/about/guides/linux.rst

    # kdeconnect-app &> /dev/null &

----

SSH Client Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will be setting up:

#. `SSH key generation <ssh key authentication setup_>`_
#. `Script to SSH into host to execute sunshine start up script (optional) <ssh client script (optional)_>`_

SSH Key Authentication Setup
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

#. Setup your SSH keys with ``ssh-keygen`` and use ``ssh-copy-id`` to authorize remote login to your host. Run ``ssh <user>@<ip_address>`` to login to your host. SSH keys automate login so you don't need to input your password!
#. Optionally setup a ``~/.ssh/config`` file to simplify the ``ssh`` command
   
   .. code-block::

		Host <some_alias>
		    Hostname <ip_address>
		    User <username>
		    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/<your_private_key>

   Now you can use ``ssh <some_alias>``.  
   ``ssh <some_alias> <commands/script>`` will execute the command or script on the remote host.

Checkpoint
++++++++++

Let's make sure your setup is working so far!

**Test Steps**

With your monitor still plugged into your PC:

#. ``ssh <alias>``
#. ``~/scripts/sunshine.sh``
#. ``nvidia-smi``

   You should see the sunshine and Xorg processing running:

   .. code-block::
    

>        # TODO Add nvidia-smi output here

Author: TODO

Linux
======

Collection of Sunshine Linux host guides.

.. _remote-ssh-headless-setup:

Remote SSH Headless Setup (Experimental)
----------------------------------------
Author: *Eric Dong* | Difficulty: *Intermediate*

This is a guide to setup remote SSH into host to startup X server and sunshine without physical login and dummy plug.
The virtual display is accelerated by the NVidia GPU using the TwinView configuration.

.. Attention::
    This guide is specific for Xorg and NVidia GPUs. I start the X server using the ``startx`` command.
    I also only tested this on an Artix runit init system on LAN.
    I didn't have to do anything special with pulseaudio (pipewire untested).
    
    Keep your monitors plugged in until the `checkpoint step <#checkpoint>`_

.. tip:: 
	Prior to editing any system configurations, you should make a copy of the original file.

> 	This will allow you to use it for reference or revert your changes easily.

Author: :skull: RIP lol gotcha

> 	This will allow you to use it for reference or revert your changes easily.

Author: Using regex made this not too bad, let me know if I missed anything:
`\t` replaced with 3 spaces
`^\s+$` replace any whitespace characters with nothing

commit: https://github.com/LizardByte/Sunshine/pull/1527/commits/d1174e2c3411dd1181f9f1b1b999409c233ca081

> 	This will allow you to use it for reference or revert your changes easily.

Author: I would also considering adding a config file for `rstcheck`, `ignore-directives` would be good to remove false positives like `tab`. `rstcheck` doesn't seem to detect the various sphinx extensions added.

Ref: https://rstcheck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/config/#configuration

	so you can choose any resolution on the host!
	
	**References**

	* `issue comment on virtual-display-linux <https://github.com/dianariyanto/virtual-display-linux/issues/9#issuecomment-786389065>`_
	* `Nvidia Documentation on Configuring TwinView <https://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/270.29/README/configtwinview.html>`_
	* `Arch Wiki Nvidia#TwinView <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/NVIDIA#TwinView>`_
	* `Unix Stack Exchange - How to add virtual display monitor with Nvidia proprietary driver <https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/559918/how-to-add-virtual-monitor-with-nvidia-proprietary-driver>`_

Uinput Permissions Workaround
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

**Steps**

We can use ``chown`` to change the permissions from a script. Since this requires ``sudo``, we will need to update the sudo configuration to execute this without being prompted for a password.

#. Create a ``sunshine-setup.sh`` script to update permissions on ``/dev/uinput``. Since we aren't logged into the host, the udev rule doesn't apply.
#. Update user sudo configuration ``/etc/sudoers.d/<user>`` to allow the ``sunshine-setup.sh`` script to be executed with ``sudo``.

> .. admonition:: Why is this necessary?

Author: Sorry, I went trigger happy with them lol. I was excited about the color boxes since plain markdown doesnt have any sort of coloring. I agree with you, I think having consistent admonitions is better.

> .. admonition:: Why is this necessary?

Reviewer: They have actually added this to GitHub flavored markdown, but not too extensively. I don't know if it's documented anywhere, but these are two that I've discovered so far.

> **Note**
> My awesome note!

> **Warning**
> You have been warned!

```md
> **Note**
> My awesome note!
```

	:class: important

	After I setup the :ref:`udev rule <about/usage:linux>` to get access to ``/dev/uinput``,
	I noticed when I sshed into the host without physical login, the ACL permissions on ``/dev/uinput`` were not changed.
	So I asked `reddit <https://www.reddit.com/r/linux_gaming/comments/14htuzv/does_sshing_into_host_trigger_udev_rule_on_the/>`_.
	I discovered that SSH sessions are not the same as a physical login.
	I suppose it's not possible for SSH to trigger a udev rule.

**Setup Script**

This script will take care of any precondtions prior to starting up sunshine.
Create a script named something like ``sunshine-setup.sh``:

.. code-block:: bash

	#!/bin/bash

> 	chown <user>:<user> /dev/uinput

Author: Sure, I will use `chown $(id -un):$(id -gn)`, since not everyone has `${USER}` as their primary group.
e.g.
```
$ id
uid=1000(eric) gid=984(users) ...
```

	# Optional
	# blocks wifi, so ethernet is used
	# use rfkill list to get the id of the Wiresless LAN
	# rfkill block <wireless_lan_index>

**Sudo Configuration**

We will manually change the permissions of ``/dev/uinput`` using ``chown``.
You need to use ``sudo`` to make this change, so add/update the entry in ``/etc/sudoers.d/<user>``

> .. caution::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. danger::
```

	Do so at your own risk! It is more secure to give sudo and no password prompt to a single script, than a generic executable like chown.

.. warning::
	Be very careful of messing this config up. If you make a typo, *YOU LOSE THE ABILITY TO USE SUDO*. Fortunately, your system is not borked,
	you will need to login as root to fix the config. You may want to setup a backup user / SSH into the host as root to fix the config if this happens. Otherwise you will need to plug your machine back into a monitor and login as root to fix this. To enable root login over SSH edit your SSHD config, and add ``PermitRootLogin yes``, and restart the SSH server.

> Replace ``<user>`` with your user and add the absolute path to your script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> .. code-block::
> 
> 	<user> ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL, NOPASSWD: /path/to/sunshine-setup.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash

	echo "${USER} ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL, NOPASSWD: $(pwd)/sunshine-setup.sh" | sudo tee -a /etc/sudoers.d/${USER}
```

Haven't tested this, but should work to just run from terminal. https://linuxize.com/post/linux-tee-command

Author: cool! i will test this

Author: I don't think appending would work correctly. it would create something lke this:
```
eric ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
eric ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL, NOPASSWD: /home/eric/sunshine-setup.sh
```
There should also be a note to `cd` to the dir where the `sunshine-setup.sh` lives so the `$(pwd)` will give the correct path.

> These changes allow the script to use sudo without being prompted with a password.
> 
> E.g. ``sudo /path/to/sunshine-setup.sh``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes allow the script to use sudo without being prompted with a password,
e.g. ``sudo /path/to/sunshine-setup.sh``
```

https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/eg

Author: lol i didn't know this, nice catch

Stream Launcher Script
++++++++++++++++++++++

> This is the main entrypoint script that will run the sunshine-setup script, start up X server, and sunshine. *This is your wrapper entrypoint script that the ssh client will run to start streaming with sunshine*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the main entrypoint script that will run the ``sunshine-setup.sh`` script, start up X server, and Sunshine. *This is your entrypoint script that the ssh host will run to start streaming with sunshine*.
```

Host runs the script... client calls the script.

**Sunshine Startup Script**

This guide will refer to this script as ``~/scripts/sunshine.sh``. The setup script will be referred as ``~/scripts/sunshine-setup.sh``

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/bin/bash

    export DISPLAY=:0

    # Check existing X server
    ps -e | grep X >/dev/null
    [[ ${?} -ne 0 ]] && {
	  echo "Starting X server"
	  startx &>/dev/null &
	  [[ ${?} -eq 0 ]] && {
	    echo "X server started successfully"
	  } || echo "X server failed to start"
    } || echo "X server already running"

    # Check if sunshine is already running
    ps -e | grep -e .*sunshine$ >/dev/null
    [[ ${?} -ne 0 ]] && {
	  sudo ~/scripts/sunshine-setup.sh
	  echo "Starting Sunshine!"
	  sunshine > /dev/null &
	  [[ ${?} -eq 0 ]] && {
	    echo "Sunshine started successfully"
	  } || echo "Sunshine failed to start"
    } || echo "Sunshine is already running"

    # Add any other Programs that you want to startup automatically
    # E.g.
    # steam &> /dev/null &
    # firefox &> /dev/null &
    # kdeconnect-app &> /dev/null &

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If this is useful, leave it... just never saw it before in rst.

Author: This syntax represents [horizontal rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/hr)
>The \<hr\> [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML) element represents a thematic break between paragraph-level elements: for example, a change of scene in a story, or a shift of topic within a section.

I got rid of the other one since I wasn't being consistent with change of topics of the subsections. But I think it makes sense here from shifting from Sunshine host setup to SSH client setup.

SSH Client Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will be setting up:

#. `SSH key generation <ssh key authentication setup_>`_
#. `Script to SSH into host to execute sunshine start up script (optional) <ssh client script (optional)_>`_

SSH Key Authentication Setup
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

#. Setup your SSH keys with ``ssh-keygen`` and use ``ssh-copy-id`` to authorize remote login to your host. Run ``ssh <user>@<ip_address>`` to login to your host. SSH keys automate login so you don't need to input your password!
#. Optionally setup a ``~/.ssh/config`` file to simplify the ``ssh`` command
   
   .. code-block::

		Host <some_alias>
		    Hostname <ip_address>
		    User <username>
		    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/<your_private_key>

   Now you can use ``ssh <some_alias>``.  
   ``ssh <some_alias> <commands/script>`` will execute the command or script on the remote host.

Checkpoint
++++++++++

Let's make sure your setup is working so far!

**Test Steps**

> With your monitor still plugged into your PC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your monitor still plugged into your Sunshine host PC:
```

#. ``ssh <alias>``
#. ``~/scripts/sunshine.sh``
#. ``nvidia-smi``

   You should see the sunshine and Xorg processing running:

>    .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console
```

Another new one for me

       | 30%   46C    P2              45W / 220W |    549MiB /  8192MiB |      2%      Default |
       |                                         |                      |                  N/A |
       +-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
       
       +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
       | Processes:                                                                            |
       |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                            GPU Memory |
       |        ID   ID                                                             Usage      |
       |=======================================================================================|
       |    0   N/A  N/A      1393      G   /usr/lib/Xorg                                86MiB |
       |    0   N/A  N/A      1440    C+G   sunshine                                    293MiB |
       +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 
#. Check ``/dev/uinput`` permissions
   

>    .. code-block:: bash
> 
>        $ ls -l /dev/uinput
>        crw------- 1 <user> <primary_group> 10, 223 Aug 29 17:31 /dev/uinput

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: bash

      ls -l /dev/uinput

   .. code-block:: console

      crw------- 1 <user> <primary_group> 10, 223 Aug 29 17:31 /dev/uinput
```

> #. Connect to host from a moonlight client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Connect to Sunshine host from a moonlight client
```

> *Now unplug your monitors and repeat steps 1 - 5*

Reviewer: Clarify what different result is expected?

Author: The result should be the same. Being able to successfully  start the X server without monitors plugged in and having sunshine working as expected.

SSH Client Script (Optional)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

At this point you have a working setup! For convience I created this bash script to automate the startup of the X server and Sunshine on the host.

> This can be run on linux / macOS system.
> On Windows, this can be run inside a ``git-bash``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be run on Unix systems, or on Windows using the ``git-bash`` or any bash shell.
```

> For Android/IOS you can install linux emulators. E.g. ``Userland`` for Android and ``ISH`` for IOS. The neat part is that you can execute one script to launch sunshine from your phone / tablet!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Android/iOS you can install Linux emulators, e.g. ``Userland`` for Android and ``ISH`` for iOS. The neat part is that you can execute one script to launch Sunshine from your phone or tablet!
```
